there is a crisis going on right now
inside the US jobs market and I'm going
to tell you why you need to understand
this now before it's too late so the
first thing we're going to look at is
what's going on what's happening the
problem awareness will then lead us into
why we need to understand it right now
in this year 2023 because things are
moving fast then we're going to talk
about what you the individual can do to
be the most valuable person person
inside your team your department and
potentially your company so that you can
make sure that you persist you thrive
and you prosper so let's begin right now
the first thing I want to look at is
this you can see the back toor barometer
and this is always changing uh we've
seen improvement over where it was
earlier in 2020 but essentially
49.7% based on the 10 City average
occupancy and so you see that half of
the people are back to work from where
they were in
2020 all right half the people and so
this presents itself with a whole bunch
of different issues number one we could
talk about the fact that there's half of
the real estate full and so that's an
issue because you've got commercial real
estate crisis going on but what else is
happening with the jobs now this is
something that is multifaceted and I
want to cover a few points from it the
first thing we need to understand is
more companies while they were more
hesitant a few years ago they're now
more lenient on how people can work from
home companies that would have said no
way or maybe it was on this special you
know circumstance yeah you can work from
home but you don't work from home you
work at the office has now changed into
a hybrid work schedle schedule there are
changes coming in your work environment
that are actively being done in the
boardrooms in these conference rooms
happening at the shareholder level
happening with the board of directors
all of the you know cclass people
they're talking about something that is
going to change everything in your
business and that happens in midsize and
the large uh companies of course if it's
small company very small company you
know things happen very differently but
as we see the big companies may start
the trend the future of jobs artificial
intelligence is poised to eliminate
millions of current jobs and create
millions of new ones they claim anyway
and that brings me to the next aspect of
this video what's
happening well what comes next AI
automation robotics these are the things
that are truly disruptive we hear the
word disruptive all the time but
actually truly disruptive already being
implemented today chat GPT as it stands
right now is better at studying
information and giving an output and so
that could be any any wide variety of
jobs not just lowp paying jobs but of
course higher paying jobs as well
General Practitioners doctors you go in
you give your symptoms and they give you
antibiotics that's one example how often
does that happen here's my symptoms
doctor okay they read your uh paper okay
yeah okay great uh yeah let me check
your blood pressure okay great couldn't
that be done by some sort
of you know combination of a low paid
worker to maybe test your your blood
pressure write it down give that to the
AI
they also have all of your history all
of your family history if that was
shared and maybe it can come up with a
better diagnosis than somebody who's I
need to get the next patient need to get
the next patient the AI can process all
of that
information isn't that interesting right
what about lawyers they you know chat
GPT passed the bar exam passed it with
flying colors so we see this they're
passing Chachi can pass everything and
this is just the infancy this is like
the beginning it's like it's a toy right
now now also if you uh have the paid
version you have the ability to upload
documents to it so you can give it these
fat documents give it that information
and then process based on that so it's
not necessarily based just on data that
it was given uh by its overlords so this
is it so we've got AI robotics
automation whether you think it's
nothing or not in the boardrooms today
right now these companies are saying
what do we got to do to get rid of these
people what do we got to do and so
that's an issue for a lot of people that
really is so what can you do as a person
as a worker how can you make sure that
you are maybe not
fireproof but that you are resistant at
least in the first round the second
round the third round the fourth round
of firing you're the last person you
want to be in that position well you
going to get the best potential for a
raise the best potential for a promotion
and hopefully they're not going to let
you go you decide when you want to leave
right so let's talk about a few things
right now you want to be the most
valuable person on your team undeniably
you have to make that very clear that
when they look around this guy right
here is Untouchable and that's the way
it's got to be always say yes always I I
need somebody to do that thing yeah I
got it I need somebody to do I got it
always commit first and then figure out
how you're going to be able to I got 20
things to do how am I going to do it yes
I say yes if you really really can't
later on you can always you know pass it
if you have to but you'll figure out a
way you will figure out a way commit
first and then go after and say am I
going to do this okay um you know with
my circumstance so when I started I was
getting a a very low salary at um this
company that I work for so here I am I'm
new I'm fresh and I'm getting in first
day on the job and I could see that this
was a very disorganized place and so I
thought to myself okay no problem uh
I'll just read up on all the data that
they have and I'll get that and I'll you
know be able to pick up on my knowledge
I asked for the documentation they had
none no documentation so here I am
starting day one and I don't know
anything I don't know how to fix figured
this out I'm in big trouble so I said
all right well I'm going to take matters
into my own hands I quickly became the
number one employee the number one
employee in this department I Rose to
the top of my department it was wasn't
even a question I was promoted at the
fastest rate of anybody that they had
ever heard of and that came because I
always said yes and a few other factors
and we're going to talk about more of
that today um go above and beyond you've
got to add value okay and so what I
think as well you got to do outside work
things so so sometimes hey let's go get
a drink at at this place let's go offer
a coffee to this place you may not want
to you're like I'm tired I got to go
home but that Rapport that you build
with maybe it's a supervisor and and a
few of the other employees that are
still kind of you know hanging out here
and there usually the the top level
management doesn't do that but sometimes
you do get the supervisors and things um
if not just the other employees you want
to know they you know they want to feel
comfortable around you so that they
don't go and backstab you so that they
don't go talk behind your back to the
management you just want to make it very
clear that you are doing everything you
can to be the best employee all right
and so you got to go above and beyond as
I say here I think that is really clear
like just getting the basics done is not
going to get you anywhere you got to go
well above well above and that means
means taking more work than other people
they're going to do the bare minimum you
can't do that you got to do more all
right uh show that those above your
direct report so you've got a supervisor
let's say there's a manager there's
directors and VPS and so on well you got
to show those let's just say director um
you know what you're doing but don't
disrespect your direct Superior so maybe
you just mentioned one off oh yeah did
you hear about that thing yeah I took
care of that uh it's all done don't
worry about it because you know that the
higher level managers are talking to
each other okay and so when you mention
those things that oh you know I heard I
heard because they don't know a lot of
times these people are in their offices
they don't know they're going to hear it
from their know person you're directly
reporting to and so sometimes just
throwing a few things out there letting
them know in passing and you know as you
mention other things that you're letting
them know you're up to something so that
when he hears from the the direct
Superior he's going to start mentioning
I like this guy I like he's getting
stuff done you might have just that
might be just a regular task but he
thinks that you are getting stuff done
and you are but now you're not only
doing so for your direct Superior you're
doing it on the one level up remember
don't disrespect your direct support
ever okay track all of your kpis okay
your key performance indicators even if
that's not being done so it's not a
sales position where you would say okay
how many phone calls did I make how many
did I close it could be done anywhere
how many boxes did I put on the Shelf
does anybody track that no could you do
that okay why don't we do a little
comparison here I stacked twice as many
boxes as this guy over here you got to
do that this is for your own good for
your family you need to do these things
take the extra step okay and um what I
would say is that you can
create you can create new things so just
one example was when I first was
employed at this place um for me there
was no documentation of any kind and so
I said well I'm going to create a
documentation and I'm going to set this
up okay we don't have a process for this
I'm going to create a process they call
that sop or standard operating procedure
I didn't use that name I think the Jan
is always nonsense but you got to create
those things and you start implementing
that and so what I saw was direct report
and one level up with my folders in
their office talking about the
circumstance and so they realized that
and said hey that's interesting I like
what this guy's doing it will help you
become the most valuable person on your
team do what you got to do go above and
beyond yes it takes more work but you're
going to solidify your position you're
going to be the one to get the best
raise the best bonus and if not guess
what when it's time to walk they might
be a little bit more hesitant and say
okay fine we'll do what you need or
you're going to use that as a reason to
go to the next place potentially get a
better offer and then your life
hopefully will be better I want your
life to be better next year than it is
this year I hope that I provided some
value to you hit that thumbs up button
when you do you're supporting me and I
want to help you as best I can I
appreciate you being here today and I'll
see you on the next one take
care